# Intelligent-Parking-System
Parking system is one of the main important facilities that should have in any infrastructure or building especially for the place of interest and place of people’s attraction. The best parking system is the system that provides customers the ease of finding the available spaces, user friendly and less time consuming. This paper presents the intelligent parking system which apply Dijkstra’s algorithm in finding the shortest path. The proposed intelligent parking guidance system is a system that assigns the nearest vacant bay to drivers with necessary direction printed on the ticket so that drivers are able to find the 'best' lot with the minimum amount of time. The system will automatically check for the nearest empty lot and reserve the lot for the user so that the next user will not get the same lot again. Software and hardware implementations have been carried out. 

Here we will represent all the parking area using graphics and also will provide step by step guidance to the driver on the map graphically to reach their slot reserved. As this system applies Dijkstra’s algorithm, where the initial node, destination node and several nodes that user will pass through are identified. In this system, the initial node will be the parking lots and destination node is the mall entrance. Next, all the identified nodes will be labelled as unvisited nodes. The distance from the initial node to the second node nearby will be calculated and the shortest distance node will be selected. The selected node is now the initial node and calculations will be performed onto the nearby nodes to look for the nearest distance. The steps will proceed until the destination node has been reached and all the nodes have been visited. All the steps above are then repeated to get the second shortest distance from parking lot to the mall and goes on until all the parking lots in the system have been calculated [17]. This is to check which nearest parking lot is available for users to park their car in the parking zone. All the distance calculation values for each parking lot will be stored in an array so that this massive calculation steps need not to be repeated for every user’s entrance. If the first shortest distance parking lot is occupied, the program will loop to check on the second shortest distance lot, and so on, until an unoccupied lot is detected.




